Watchdog Timer intro


*Introduction to Watchdog Timer*
Watchdog Timer (WDT) can be helpful to automatically reset the system whenever a timeout occurs.
A system reset is required for preventing the failure of the system in a situation of a hardware fault or program error.
There are countless applications where the system cannot afford to get stuck at a point (not even for a small duration of time). 
For example, in a radar system, if the system hangs for 5 minutes, it can result in serious repercussions (an enemy plane or missile may go undetected resulting in huge losses).
The system should be robust enough to automatically detect the failures quickly and reset itself in order to recover from the failures and function normally without errors.
One can manually reset the system to recover from errors. But it is not always feasible to manually reset the system, especially once it has been deployed.
To overcome such problems, a watchdog timer is necessary to automatically reset the system without human intervention.
 

*How does Watchdog Timer work?*

The watchdog timer is loaded with a timeout period which is dependent on the application.
The watchdog timer starts its counting independent of a system clock i.e. it has a separate internal oscillator to work independently of a system clock.
The watchdog timer cleared through software each time before the timeout period occurs.
Whenever software failed to clear the watchdog timer before its timeout period, the watchdog timer resets the system.
For this purpose, a watchdog timer is used to overcome software failures in real-time applications.
The watchdog timer is also used to wake up the microcontroller from sleep mode.
 

*Inside of PIC18F4550 Watchdog Timer*
In PIC18F4550, the watchdog timer uses a different 31 kHz INTRC clock and it is independent of a system clock.
Watchdog Timer can be enabled in two ways through Configuration Register (CONFIG2H) and through WDTCON Register.
CONFIG2H has a WDTEN bit to enable/disable the watchdog timer.
WDTCON (WDT control register) has the SWDTEN bit which is used to enable/disable the WDT through software.

https://youtu.be/GbfQBsdeLw8  //link
