PIC18F4550 I2C


*Introduction to I2C protocol 
I2C (Inter-Integrated Circuit) is a master-slave protocol that may have one master or many master and many slaves whereas SPI has only one master.
It is a synchronous serial protocol that communicates data between two devices.
It is generally used for communication over a short distance. It is a slow speed protocol as compared to SPI communication.
The I2C device has 7-bit or 10-bit unique address. So to access these devices, the master has to address them by the 7-bit or 10-bit unique address.
I2C is used in many applications like reading RTC (Real-time clock), accessing external EEPROM memory. It is also used in sensor modules like gyro, magnetometer, etc.
It is also called as Two Wire Interface (TWI) protocol.

*I2C bus uses 2 lines for communication:
-Serial Clock (SCL): It is a clock signal. Data will be sent to other devices on the clock tick event. The only master device has control over this SCL line.
-Serial Data(SDA): It is a serial data line which is used to send data in either direction.

*I2C Registers
To establish I2C communication between devices, we have to configure PIC18F4550. To do this, PIC18F4550 has different registers which are as follows

1)SSPBUF: Serial Transmit/Receive Buffer
In I2C protocol, SSPBUF is a data register which is used for transmission and reception of data.

2)SSPSR: MSSP Shift Register
It is a shift register that is used to shift data in and out on the SDA line. It is not directly accessible.

3)SSPADD Register: MSSP Address Register
In Master mode:
SSPADD register is used to decide or generate a baud/bit rate.

*I2C Clock Frequency
Only the master initiates the clock on the SCL line.
SSPADD register in the master is used to generate I2C clock frequency.

Status Flag and Interrupt Flag
After complete transmission of data/address, Buffer full flag is set, and also acknowledge signal is received. After reception of the acknowledge signal, the SSPIF interrupt flag is set.
Whereas in data reception, the Buffer full flag is set when a complete byte is received and the device needs to send an Acknowledge signal for indication of reading continuation. 
And when data is shifted from SSPSR register to SSPBUF, SSPIF flag is set.  
So to check whether the transmission/reception is complete or not, we have to monitor either BF flag or the SSPIF interrupt flag.


