Introduction
This project demonstrates how to use the NodeMCU (ESP8266) to read values from a soil moisture sensor and display the moisture level in percentage. 
The soil moisture sensor provides an analog output, which is then read by the NodeMCU's A0 analog input pin. The value is converted to a percentage and printed to the serial monitor.

Working Principle
Soil Moisture Sensor: The sensor works by measuring the resistance between two probes inserted into the soil. The resistance varies with the moisture level of the soil:
he higher the moisture, the lower the resistance.

Analog Readings: The NodeMCU reads the analog value from the sensor through the A0 pin. This value ranges from 0 to 1023.

Moisture Calculation: The value is mapped to a percentage of soil moisture. A higher analog value corresponds to drier soil, while a lower analog value indicates wetter soil.

The formula used to calculate moisture percentage is:
   
      moisture_percentage = ( 100.00 - ( (analogRead(sensor_pin)/1023.00) * 100.00 ) )


Connections
> Soil Moisture Sensor:
Signal (Analog Output) pin to A0 (analog input pin) on the NodeMCU.
VCC pin to 3.3V or 5V (depending on your sensor's voltage requirement) on the NodeMCU.
GND pin to GND on the NodeMCU.


Code Explanation
Analog Reading: The analogRead(sensor_pin) function reads the sensor's analog value from pin A0. This value ranges from 0 to 1023, where 0 represents maximum moisture and 1023 
represents dry soil.

Moisture Percentage Calculation: The moisture percentage is calculated by subtracting the analog value's proportion from 100. 
A lower reading (wet soil) results in a higher moisture percentage, while a higher reading (dry soil) results in a lower percentage.

moisture_percentage = ( 100.00 - ( (analogRead(sensor_pin)/1023.00) * 100.00 ) )

Serial Output: The moisture level in percentage is displayed on the serial monitor, making it easy to observe the current soil moisture.

Delay: A 1-second delay (delay(1000)) is added between readings to ensure the system doesn't overwhelm the serial monitor with data.

Conclusion
This project provides a simple way to monitor soil moisture using the NodeMCU (ESP8266). It can be used for applications like automated irrigation systems, 
where the soil moisture data can help control water usage. By adjusting the threshold moisture level, you can automate watering based on the sensor's readings.

